.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com>,
.\"
.TH CSPICE-MKSPK 1
.SH NAME
cspice-mkspk \- creates an SPK file from trajectory information.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcspice-mkspk\fR \fB\-setup\fR \fISETUP_FILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
\fBcspice-mkspk\fR \fB\-u\fR | \fB\-h\fR
.br
\fBcspice-mkspk\fR \fB\-template\fR [\fIIMPUT_TYPE\fR \fIOUTPUT_TYPE\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cspice-mkspk
generates a new, or appends data to an existing, spacecraft or target body's ephemeris file in SPICE SPK format using one of the following SPK types: 5, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 17. This SPK file is a binary file constructed according to the SPICE DAF (Double Precision Array File) architecture, containing one or more SPK data segments.
.PP
The program accepts one ASCII text file containing descriptions of input data (setup file) and a second ASCII text file (input file) containing the source ephemeris data to be processed.
.PP
Source ephemeris data can be time ordered lists of states (positions and velocities), sets of conic elements, sets of two-line elements, or a single set of equinoctial elements. All input data must be defined in a reference frame and relative to a body center both of which are specified in the setup file.
.PP
.B cspice-mkspk
is part of the SPICE Toolkit. See \fBcspice\fR(7).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-setup\fR \fISETUP_FILE\fR
Provide the setup file name. If input and output file names are provided, any file names assigned using setup file keywords are ignored.
.TP
\fB\-input\fR \fIIMPUT_FILE\fR
Provide the input data file name. The input file must already exist.
.TP
\fB\-output\fR \fIOUTPUT_FILE\fR
Provide the output SPK file name. The output must not exist unless the \fB\-append\fR option or the corresponding setup file keyword tells the program to run in the append mode.
.TP
\fB\-append\fR
Append new data to the specified output SPK file. If the SPK file specified after the \fB-output\fR option doesn't exist, then a new SPK file with the name specified will be created.
.br
Caution: if the program fails for any reason, it, in most cases, deletes the output file, even if it was appending data to an existing SPK file.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-usage\fR
Display usage information.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-help\fR
Display a brief summary of the program's functionality.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-template\fR [\fIIMPUT_TYPE\fR \fIOUTPUT_TYPE\fR]
Display either the complete setup file template or a type-specific setup file template and exit.
If specified by itself, the program displays the complete setup file template including all required, optional, and conditional setup file keywords.
To display a more concise, type-specific template, the \fIIMPUT_TYPE\fR (\fBstates\fR, \fBelements\fR, \fBeq_elements\fR, or \fBtl_elements\fR) and the \fIOUTPUT_TYPE\fR (\fB5\fR, \fB8\fR, \fB9\fR, \fB10\fR, \fB12\fR, \fB13\fR, \fB15\fR or \fB17\fR) can be specified. Such templates will include only keywords applicable for the specified type combination.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cspice (7).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com> based on the official SPICE documentation. See http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/index.html for more information.
