.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com>,
.\"
.TH CSPICE-CHRONOS 1
.SH NAME
cspice-chronos \- convert time from one supported system/type to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cspice-chronos
\fB\-setup\fR \fIFILE\fR
.br
.RS 15
\fB\-from\fR \fITIME_SYSTEM\fR
.br
\fB\-to\fR \fITIME_SYSTEM\fR
.br
\fB\-time\fR \fITIME\fR | \fB-batch\fR
.br
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcspice-chronos\fR
is a time conversion tool capable of converting times between the following time systems:
.br
.RS 4
UTC: Universal Time Coordinated (types: SCET, ERT, ETT, LT)
.br
ET: Ephemeris Time (types: SCET, ERT, ETT, LT, SECONDS)
.br
SCLK: Spacecraft On-board Clock Time (types: SCLK, HEX, TICKS)
.br
ST: Local True Solar Time (types: LST, LSU)
.RE
.PP
.B cspice-chronos
is part of the SPICE Toolkit. See \fBcspice\fR(7).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-setup\fR \fISETUP_FILE\fR
Specify a setup file name or directly list the names of the SPICE kernels to be used.
If \fISETUP_FILE\fR is not present or is blank, it tries to obtain it from the environment variable CHRONOS_SETUP_FILE.
.TP
\fB\-from\fR \fITIME_SYSTEM\fR
Specify the time system of the input time.
.TP
\fB\-fromtype\fR \fITIME_TYPE\fR
Specify the time type of the input time.
If it's not present or is blank, it is assumed the default time type for the input time system (SCET for UTC and ET, SCLK for SCLK, and LST for LST).
.TP
\fB\-to\fR \fITIME_SYSTEM\fR
Specify the time system of the output time.
.TP
\fB\-totype\fR \fITIME_TYPE\fR
Specify the time type of the output time.
If it's not present or is blank, it is assumed the default time type for the output time system (SCET for UTC and ET, SCLK for SCLK and LST for LST).
.TP
\fB\-format\fR \fIOUTPUT_FORMAT\fR
Specify a custom format for the output time.
If a format specification is not present or is blank, it looks for a specification in the setup file and, if such is also not available, it uses the default format.
.TP
\fB\-time\fR \fITIME\fR
Specify the input time.
Most time types of UTC and ET systems require input time to be in a form of a time string recognized by TIME subsystem of SPICE.
.TP
\fB\-batch\fR
Tell the program to take input time(s) from standard input instead of the command line.
If it's present, the program ignores any input time provided after the \fB-time\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-sc\fR \fISC_ID\fR
Specify the NAIF ID for the spacecraft.
If \fISC_ID\fR is not present, the program looks for it in the setup file.
.TP
\fB\-center\fR \fIBODY_ID\fR
Specify the NAIF ID for the center body.
If \fIBODY_ID\fR is not present, the program looks for it in the setup file.
.TP
\fB\-landingtime\fR \fITIME\fR
Specify the UTC time of the landing.
If \fITIME\Fr is not present, the program looks for it in the setup file.
.TP
\fB\-sol1index\fR \fIINDEX\fR
Specify the SOL index for the first day on surface.
If \fIINDEX\fR is not present, the program looks for it in the setup file.
.TP
\fB\-nolabel\fR
Tell the program to not display [SYSTEM]/[TYPE] following the output time string.
.TP
\fB\-trace\fR
Tell the program to display trace information including, complete command line, names of the loaded SPICE kernel files, all relevant setup information, etc.
This option overrules the \fB-nolabel\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-template\fR
Display setup file template.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-help\fR
Display help information.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-usage\fR
Display usage information.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cspice (7).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com> based on the official SPICE documentation. See http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/index.html for more information.
