.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com>,
.\"
.TH CSPICE-MSOPCK 1
.SH NAME
cspice-msopck \- converts attitude data into a SPICE C-kernel.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcspice-msopck\fR \fISETUP_FILE\fR \fIINPUT_DATA_FILE\fR \fIOUTPUT_CK_FILE\fR
.br
\fBcspice-msopck\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cspice-msopck
generates a new, or appends data to an existing, attitude data file in SPICE CK format using one of the following CK types: 1, 2, 3. This CK file is a binary file constructed according to the SPICE DAF (Double Precision Array File) architecture, containing one or more CK data segments.
.PP
The program accepts one ASCII text file containing descriptions of input data (setup file) and a second ASCII text file (input file) containing the source attitude data to be processed.
.PP
Source attitude data can be time ordered lists of quaternions, Euler angles, or matrices tagged with UTC, spacecraft on-board clock (SCLK), or Ephemeris Time (ET) times. All input data must provide attitude for a structure relative to a reference frame, both of which are specified in the setup file.
.PP
The program buffers the input data by chunks of 100,000 records and writes each chunk into a separate CK segment. It uses the same point as the end of the previous and the start of the next chunk to provide continuity at the segment boundary.
.PP
.B cspice-msopck
is part of the SPICE Toolkit. See \fBcspice\fR(7).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-usage\fR
Display a brief usage message. This is the default behaviour if the command line has too few or too many arguments.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-help\fR
Display a brief help message.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-template\fR
Display the complete setup file template.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cspice (7).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com> based on the official SPICE documentation. See http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/index.html for more information.
