.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com>,
.\"
.TH CSPICE-SPKDIFF 1
.SH NAME
cspice-spkdiff \- compare or sample trajectories of two bodies

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcspice-spkdiff\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFIRST_SPK\fR \fISECOND_SPK\fR
\fBcspice-spkdiff\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fISPK_FILE\fR
\fBcspice-spkdiff\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cspice-spkdiff
provides means for comparing the trajectories of two bodies or sampling the trajectory of a single body known to SPICE and supported by data from SPICE kernels.
.PP
To compare trajectories the program computes a set of geometric states of a body as seen from a center in a reference frame over an interval of time with a fixed or variable time step using one SPK file, computes a set of geometric states for the same or different body-center-frame combination at the same times using the other SPK file, and then subtracts the corresponding states from each other. Depending on the type of output report requested the program prints to the screen only the maximum differences in position and velocity, or a complete table of position and velocity differences, or a complete table of differences expressed in "view frame" coordinates, or results of a simple statistical analysis of the differences expressed in "view frame" coordinates.
.PP
To sample trajectory of a body the program computes a set of geometric states of a body as seen from a center in a reference frame over an interval of time with fixed or variable time step, using a given set of kernel files, and prints to the screen a table containing these states.
.PP
.B cspice-spkdiff
is part of the SPICE Toolkit. See \fBcspice\fR(7).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIKERNEL\fR ...
Specify the list of additional kernels or meta-kernels that are needed for both trajectories to be computed.
.TP
\fB\-b1\fR \fIBODY\fR
Specify the body for the first trajectory to be computed. This body can be specified using its NAIF ID or name. If the name is used, it must be either built into SPICE or defined by kernels provided using the \fB\-k\fR and \fB\-k1\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-c1\fR \fIBODY\fR
Specify the center for the first trajectory to be computed. This center can be specified using its NAIF ID or name. If the name is used, it must be either built into SPICE or defined by kernels provided using the \fB\-k\fR and \fB\-k1\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-r1\fR \fIFRAME\fR
Specify the name of the reference frame for the first trajectory to be computed. The frame can be any of the frames built into SPICE or frames defined by kernels provided using the \fB\-k\fR and \fB\-k1\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-k1\fR \fIKERNEL\fR ...
Specify the list of additional kernels or meta-kernels that are needed only for the first trajectory to be computed.
.TP
\fB\-b2\fR \fIBODY\fR
Specify the body for the second trajectory to be computed. This body can be specified using its NAIF ID or name. If the name is used, it must be either built into SPICE or defined by kernels provided using the \fB\-k\fR and \fB\-k2\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-c2\fR \fIBODY\fR
Specify the center for the second trajectory to be computed. This center can be specified using its NAIF ID or name. If the name is used, it must be either built into SPICE or defined by kernels provided using the \fB\-k\fR and \fB\-k2\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-r2\fR \fIFRAME\fR
Specify the name of the reference frame for the second trajectory to be computed. The frame can be any of the frames built into SPICE or frames defined by kernels provided using the \fB\-k\fR and \fB\-k2\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-k2\fR \fIKERNEL\fR ...
Specify the list of additional kernels or meta-kernels that are needed only for the second trajectory to be computed.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fITIME\fR
Specify the coverage window begin time. The time string provided using this option can be in any form accepted by SPICE. If this option is provided, the name of an LSK file must be provided with the \fB\-k\fR, \fB\-k1\fR, or \fB\-k2\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fITIME\fR
Specify the coverage window end time. The time string provided using this option can be in any form accepted by SPICE. If this option is provided, the name of an LSK file must be provided with the \fB\-k\fR, \fB\-k1\fR, or \fB\-k2\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fISTEP\fR
Specify the step, in TDB seconds, for determining points within the coverage window, for which the trajectory(ies) are to be computed. The step must be greater than 1E-8. This option supersedes \fB\-n\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fINUMBER\fR
Specify the number of points within the coverage window, for which the trajectory(ies) are to be computed. The number must be an integer between 2 and 1,000,000. The default value is 1000.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fITIME_TYPE\fR ...
Specify the output time format other than the default TDB seconds past J2000. The value can be any time format picture accepted by SPICE. For example to display time tags as UTCs in ISO date format use 'YYYY-MM-DDTHR:MN:SC.### ::RND', to display time tags as TDB Julian days use 'JULIAND.######### ::TDB'.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR
Specify the number of significant digits in the output numeric times (TDB seconds past J2000) and state component values or state component difference values included in the dump, coverage and coverage gap reports. The number must be an integer between 6 and 17. The default value is 14.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIREPORT_TYPE\fR
Specify the type of report that the program should display.
.br
If \fIREPORT_TYPE\fR is \fBbasic\fR, it will display only the absolute and relative maximum and average differences in magnitude of position and velocity vectors. This is the default type for comparison runs.
.br
If \fIREPORT_TYPE\fR is \fBstats\fR, it will display statistics on position differences rotated into the view frame.
.br
If \fIREPORT_TYPE\fR is \fBdump\fR, it will display a table of positions and velocities or their differences.  This is the default type for sampling runs.
.br
If \fIREPORT_TYPE\fR is \fBdumpvf\fR, it will display a table of position and velocity differences rotated into the view frame.
.br
If \fIREPORT_TYPE\fR is \fBdumpc\fR, it will display a table of coverage intervals.
.br
If \fIREPORT_TYPE\fR is \fBdumpg\fR, it will display a table of gaps in coverage.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Display only the version line. This option overrides all other options.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Display the usage message. This option overrides all other options except \fB\-v\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display a brief help message. This option overrides all other options except \fB\-v\fR and \fB\-u\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cspice (7).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Rock Storm <rockstorm@gmx.com> based on the official SPICE documentation. See http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/naif/toolkit_docs/C/index.html for more information.
